Now that we understand how to install external packages that other people have uploaded to py py let's
learn how to create our own modules and packages.
Let's start by clarifying some concepts.
Any python code stored in a dot py file is referred to as a module.
So for us working in py charm, every sheet we have created in a dot py file is a module.
As we have seen, a module can hold a set of functions, variables or classes and it can also be used
by other modules.
We're going to see this in a moment.
For example, we can define a module called my module PY with two functions sum and subtract.
Once defined, such a module can be used or imported into another file.
In this way, since we can import all its contents using import.
On the other hand, packages are collections of modules.
In other words, a package is a folder containing several modules.
For instance, we can design a mathematical package by creating a folder with this structure.
In this case, our package contains two normal modules arithmetic, py and geometry py and a special
module that must be in all packages, which is called underscore, underscore in it, underscore, underscore.
Every package must always contain an init py file so that python understands it is a package and not
just a folder.
And you can even create sub packages inside your packages if you want.
But there must be an init module in all of them in order to tell python.
That is a set of packaged modules to help you not get tangled up with this theory.
Let's go over to the computer and see how it works.
So for this lesson, we'll create a new project inside pie chart.
So we'll go to new project and we'll be able to choose here where we want to save it.
I'll save it in desktop and I'll name it.
My modules enter this window and now we can start the project from scratch.
So I'll create two Python files.
Here we have my modules and first we'll create a new file called Occupied Module P and a second one
called Empty Module P.
These names will remind us of the contents of each module.
So in occupied module we'll type a text, a function named greet, which won't need arguments.
It will only print a text that reads, Hello, I'm in the occupied module.
When we see it, we'll know this function is located in the occupied module and in the empty module
we won't type anything.
We're going to try using the function we've just created in the other module.
So if I call greet here the option to enter it doesn't come up.
And if I type the whole name, I get an error.
If I executed it, I'd get an error to sum it up.
I cannot use a function from occupied module in empty module.
For now, however, we can import a function from another module as we did with random and path, and
we've been importing modules from other places throughout the course.
So let's import from occupied module import and now we can see the options greet.
So I can import greet which is located in another module now empty module which is named like that because
it doesn't have a function of its own can call greet.
So we'll execute it.
And voila, we can read.
Hello?
I'm in the occupied module from empty module.
We were able to call the function of occupied module because we could import it.
So I can also do it from command line.
I'll go to desktop because I can access the folder, my modules from there.
That's it.
And now I can enter python to execute empty module p which returns.
Hello.
I'm in the occupied module.
So we have used the element of a module from another module and this is the traditional way to format
p files without storing everything inside one file.
So imagine some complex software and what it must be like to have your code in one single sheet.
It must be impossible to find anything.
So despite this, it won't be enough at some point.
And we will need to organize our files into one package.
And a package is not just a folder.
Notice that in desktop I have the folder, my modules where I have occupied an empty module.
But this is not a package.
It is a folder containing two modules.
So let's find out how to create a package.
Back in py charm.
I'll close all of this and now I'll create a new project in my desktop as well.
Let's called my package and I'll do it in this window.
My new package is loading.
How do we tell it is a package?
So first we'll close Main and then we'll create a new file inside my package.
But I'll give it a special name.
Underscore, underscore in it.
Underscore, underscore dot p.
Why you may remember this expression because we dealt with it when creating the constructor of a new
class.
In it is the constructor of a package.
It tells Python, Hey, we have a package here.
As long as you have an init p file, every file that follows here will be part of a package.
They are modules of a package.
So we'll leave this file empty and it doesn't need to contain anything, just exist.
So back to desktop.
We'll go back to the package we just created and we'll see in it.
And main, we're not only interested in the class yet, we'll deal with that later.
And the modules we create here will be part of a package because we've told Python that we have the
in its class.
So my package is a package indeed.
Okay.
Let's create another class inside my package, one that contains functions.
It can be named addition and subtraction.
PY So it's name like that because it will contain two functions.
One will be addition, which will require numbers such as number one and number two colon.
And this function will print those two numbers.
So let's print the sum of number one plus number two, and that's all the first function will have.
The second function could be the same.
So let's copy it down here.
It'll be subtraction.
That's the difference.
It will subtract number one and number two.
So let's go back to the folder and we'll see that inside my package.
We have in it addition and subtraction.
So let's create a package here and we'll create a new folder named Package Fedi and this will be the
actual package.
So let's type in it, addition and subtraction.
And since we have in it package very will be converted to a package.
So as a matter of fact, my package is the name of the project.
Notice that package fairy has a dot that's the symbol that tells PY charm that it is a package.
So let's create a file outside package fairy.
It will be named exercise py and notice that it is outside the package.
In this group of modules and in package fairy we have addition and subtraction.
So now I want to use addition or subtraction.
So if I call edition, it won't allow me to do that because this function doesn't exist in this module.
So this time I'll call a package.
So I need to import something from package already.
So I'll import addition and subtraction and I'll be able to use it thanks to pitchow.
So if I want to call this, I need to call addition and subtraction first, which is the name of the
module dot.
And now I can call the two functions contained in addition and subtraction.
For instance, I can call subtraction and pass the numbers 15 and two to it, and I can also call addition
and subtraction addition in order to sum and I can pass 20 and 55 to it, let's execute exercise, run,
run, exercise and I'll obtain 13 the result of subtraction and 75 the result of addition mathematical
operations I was able to perform due to the fact that I imported.
Module from a package.
So in addition, if my package had several modules and I wanted to use them all instead of addition
and subtraction, I type an asterix here and I'd import all of that and that to be it.
But that's not the case.
So let's undo.
So I was saying that our package can also have sub packages.
So inside package, Freddie, which is my package, I'm going to create another folder.
This folder will be named sub package.
And in order for sub package to be considered a package, it needs an init file.
So in py charm I go to package ferry and inside sub package, which is not a package yet because it
doesn't have a dot since it isn't containing.
And in it I'll add a class in it.
PY.
And that dot will pop up automatically because now it is a sub package.
So we'll create another class inside of package.
Let's create a class named greet py.
And it will contain a function named.
Hello.
Will print.
Hey.
And that's it.
Okay.
We have this inside our sub package which is located in package fitting.
So let's go back to exercise and let's close these two.
Can we call greet from here?
So far, if I integrate, nothing comes up because I have to import it.
So let's type from package ferry.
And how do I import sub package?
First the package and then the dot.
So we'll see what's inside package ferry, which is addition and subtraction and sub package.
In this case, I want to enter sub package and import greet from here.
So if I want to greet someone, I can call greet.
I'll enter a dot and see what methods and functions greet has.
I can see the hello function which I can execute.
And besides the results of addition and subtraction, I also have hey the greeting that's inside greet
inside the sub package in package.
So I really hope you could follow me.
So not only can we import modules that others create, but we can also create our own modules and packages
and import them inside the files in which we need them.
So now we're able to start thinking about more complex programs in which we can store different functions
or elements in different modules which are contained in one or several packages, so that we can call
different packages from a single project and use everything we create there.
Isn't it wonderful?
So that's all for now, and we'll keep on working in the next lecture.
So I'll see you there.